---
layout: post
title: jQuery 1.5 - create deferred object with callback parameters
---
h2. jQuery 1.5 - create your own deferred object with parameters

p. jQuery has just recently released version 1.5 which now contains $.when and $.then, yay!  There are many tutorials already   on how to use these new functions.  All the examples used $.ajax calls which are setup by jQuery to be used as deferred objects so I found it difficult to implement my own deferred objects.   I found this "guide":http://www.erichynds.com/jquery/using-deferreds-in-jquery/ which is great and covers most of what you need to know.
        
	The tutorial covers how to create your own deferred objects but doesn't include passing parameters to $.then call backs.   So after playing around a little bit and reading the jQuery source I figured it out and have included it below.

	I have seen some people asking on how to do this so hopefully it helps! As usual post any mistakes I made 

{% highlight javascript %}
function myFunc(){
	return $.Deferred(function( deferred_obj ){
		$("body").css("background", "#ff0000"); // Example
		deferred_obj.resolve( "these", "are", "my", "parameters" );
		// Call resolve when you are ready to continue, in animation callbacks etc
	}).promise();
};
$.when( myFunc() )
	.then(function(p1, p2, p3, p4){
		console.log( p1 + p2 + p3 + p4);
});       

{% endhighlight %}


p. So it's pretty easy and you should start using them immediatly!

h2. "Demo":http://thomasdavis.github.com/examples/jquery-deferred/
	"Source":https://github.com/thomasdavis/thomasdavis.github.com/tree/master/examples/jquery-deferred
     


<script>
var idcomments_acct = 'e6c0e0096f8106ea52c674a85b26ecf9';
var idcomments_post_id = "jquerydeferred";
var idcomments_post_url;
</script>
<span id="IDCommentsPostTitle" style="display:none"></span>
<script type='text/javascript' src='http://www.intensedebate.com/js/genericCommentWrapperV2.js'></script>
</div>
