---
layout: post
title: javascript - pass "this" to your anonymous functions
---


h2. javascript - pass "this" to your anonymous functions

Anonymous functions in javascript are extremely powerful and if you don't understand them fully just yet I would highly recommend learning asap.   A great guide can be found
<a href="http://helephant.com/2008/08/javascript-anonymous-functions/" target="_blank">here</a>.   The problem with anonymous functions is that when declared the value of "this" changes
depending on the situation and generally points to the functions scope.   <br /><br />This is generally not a desired effect and can cause people to use globals and other funky methods of accessing
parent objects in anonymous functions. Below I will show you a simple way to access the parent object.   Always remember objects in Javascript are passed by reference!


h3. Passing "this" to the anonymous function

This step is quite easy and I have used a famous alien robot for the example.   The robot wants to access his main weapon system from one of methods.  So the expected
output is for the robot to fire "this.weapon" but as you see in the first example he cannot access his properties which are returned as "undefined".

h2. "Demo":http://thomasdavis.github.com/examples/anonymous-functions/
    "Source":https://github.com/thomasdavis/thomasdavis.github.com/tree/master/examples/anonymous-functions



{% highlight javascript %}




// Below is a simple function to find our autobots, 
// just used for testing purposes
function findAutobot(){
    // Locate the autobots!
    return true;
}

// noob_bot is an example of what happens when you 
// don't pass this to your anonymous functions
noob_bot = {
    weapon: "laser",
    kill: function(){
        // In the then statement we have declared an 
        // anonymous function and we want to access noob_bots properties
        $.when( findAutobot )
        .then( function(){
            alert("Noob_bot: Fire the " + this.weapon + "!!!#!");
        });
    }
}

// Noob_bots weapon would have failed(undefined) because when
// you create anonymous functions the scope of "this"
// changes to the function.   So we use $.proxy(function, this) 
megatron = {
    weapon: "laser",
    kill: function(){
        // Megatron has direct access to his weapon systems
        //  because we have called .bind(this)
        $.when( findAutobot )
        .then( $.proxy( function(){
                alert("Megatron: Fire the " + this.weapon + "!!!#!");
            }, this);
        })
    }
}
    
noob_bot.kill();
megatron.kill();

{% endhighlight %}



h2. "Demo":http://thomasdavis.github.com/examples/anonymous-functions/
    "Source":https://github.com/thomasdavis/thomasdavis.github.com/tree/master/examples/anonymous-functions

h3. Conclusion

p. There are many other ways of passing "this" to an anonymous function and if you have any better suggestions I welcome you to post them.   Hopefully this tutorial has been helpful to you!  
Fork me on github, using the link in the top left.

h3. Other implementations

p. Just posting a few solutions posted by others below.

p. From sisk on hackernews
"http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2296064":http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2296064

{% highlight javascript %}

setTimeout(
(function(scope){
    return function(){scope.fire();};
})(this), 500
);

{% endhighlight %}

p. sisk : The short explanation is you return a function from an immediately-
executing anonymous function that takes the current scope as a parameter.



