---
layout: post
title: The obligatory refutation of RPC (Meteor.js)
---
h2. The obligatory refutation of RPC (Meteor.js)

p. Hi guys, just been reading through all the discussion of Meteor.js on Hackernews and noticed that the discussion had very little critique.   So here are just a few articles to think about and at the very least this post hopes to facilitate some discussion of the cons of Meteor.js approach. 

"REST：An Alternative to RPC for Web Services Architecture":https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:LylgA_fL8q4J:web.uvic.ca/~erikj/seng422/resources/rest_paper.pdf+&hl=en&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESjYHfPLfpUiFhk4xLz6u9tSLXyTtcs6RVvV9ZdSqcNFjPNZ6iKmU5N7Ij0kYphZXmEqAL0VvVYGE9kT14vn7SveDWswWyL71LXn2neko4XEiM5PKaV_ZP5pH2kksIpaPgtcTgmA&sig=AHIEtbSBz804J-e96OlGr7I-LyV4ZDiLBQ&pli=1

As a front-end developer this publication articulates well some of my strongest concerns. - _Highly recommend reading this_

"Now.js released on Hackernews - 400 days ago":http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2316005

A user `jerf` gives an indepth critique and should proove a valuable insight.

"Erlang - This the road we didn't go down":http://armstrongonsoftware.blogspot.com.au/2008/05/road-we-didnt-go-down.html

More food for thought

h3. My thoughts

p. I just wrote this up in a matter of minutes so can't do the duty of clarifying any refutations.

Though my quick points would be

* Clients are now more tightly coupled to Servers and actually influence the servers development
* Versioning of data/api's becomes more complex
* Security becomes more complex
* We should be striving towards improving our understanding of REST to tackle the problems that this RPC implementation promises
* "Now.js":http://nowjs.com/ and "dnode":https://github.com/substack/dnode have been around for a while now.  They have already managed to grow a culture of negative sentiments

h3. Hopefully some expects chime in and give us the other side of the story

Thanks for reading, sorry for the crappy website!
